what's going on in the Middle East is
about 70% of the problems in the entire
Middle East stem from the Islamic
Republic of Iran but what it does it
exports its ideology and Terror with its
arms all across the Middle East every
country it touches it It ultimately
destroys it's like the anti-as touch it
provides them weapons it trains them and
ultimately it also uh commands them to
to uh generate
[Music]
Terror hello everybody I had the
privilege and opportunity today to have
a discussion with Naf T Bennett who was
the 13th prime minister of Israel and so
obviously there's plenty to discuss on
that front and so we did discuss plenty
we discussed the polarization in Israel
and how discussion and then protest
regarding the Reformation of the
Judiciary in Israel distracted the
population and the state and laid at
least some of the groundwork for the
October 7th attack we talked about that
attack um and its geopolitical causes
concentrating most particularly on Iran
a and the Islamic Republic of Iran more
specifically focusing on that
regime's stated intent
to supplant and replace let's say uh
eradicate and annihilate the United
States and Israel um which is certainly
the kind of statement that would make
you assume that you're dealing with a
regime that is to say the least your
sworn enemy the fact that Iran
is responsible in large part for funding
the events that led up to in the narrow
and the broader sense the attack on
October 7th and what that might mean for
the future while also maintaining a
certain amount of optimism let's say on
the um Muslim Jewish Christian Peace
front given
the establishment and the continuation
of the Abraham Accords and what that
means for the future even after the
atrocities atro ities of October 7th
so join us for that update yourself and
find out what's going on in the Middle
East and the world particularly with
regards to
Iran well Mr Bennett I think we should
probably start with the presumption of a
fair bit of um ignorance on the part of
the viewers and listeners and well and
with regard to me as well and we'll get
you if you would to position yourself
let everybody know who you are what role
you've played in Israel what role you're
playing now just set the stage for us
personally so that everyone understands
who I'm talking to and why sure uh well
I uh had the privilege of serving as
Israel's 13th prime minister uh years
2122 um prior to that I was uh education
Minister minister of economy and defense
minister so I I spent a bit more than a
decade in politics before that uh I had
a whole another life uh in
in Hightech I was a startup uh founder
founded a company became CEO a real
roller coaster but ultimately uh we had
success and then I ran another company
we sold it also and prior to that like
all Israelis I served in in the military
in Israel's top unit it's called Sayer
matkal uh the guys who did in TBI and
and all of that uh and I had the
privilege of becoming a platoon
commander and later a company commander
in a special Commando unit so I spent uh
quite a few years fighting our enemies
primarily kisala in Lebanon I grew up
Ina uh a beautiful city in Northern
Israel some people compare it to San
Francisco because it's a mountain that
sort of goes down into the sea um my mom
and dad were born and raised in San
Francisco uh and they uh what's called
called ma alah in Hebrew when you move
to Israel you ascend you go up the term
Aliyah is to go up so they ma alah in
1967 uh and they are really my biggest
Heroes uh my my dad and mom and so where
would where would you position yourself
on the or where are you positioned on
the political Spectrum in Israeli
politics and would you describe what the
political spectrum is in Israel because
obviously there's a left right Spectrum
or something approximating it but that
doesn't mean that it Maps you know
isomorphically with what we might expect
in the in the rest of the West so flesh
out the political landscape there in
your position so I would uh talk about
two Dimensions uh on my political
beliefs and opinions I'm right of Center
uh I do not believe in a land
consessions I think our enemies want to
annihilate us I think the only way to
achieve peace is by being incredibly
strong I'm a free market guy uh so I
would be considered a moderate
Republican here in America however uh
the way I view the political system
today it's less about the a battle of
opinions and more about a very
dangerous uh uh group identity
politics
where opinions almost don't matter what
matters is are you for your group or is
it against your group uh we can talk
about this later and in that sense I
uh the government I established was a
very unique uh creature it was uh the
most diverse government in Israel's
history and when I was prime minister I
had left-wing ministers right-wing uh uh
ministers and parties I had secular and
religious I had Jews and Arabs for the
first time eight different parties
and uh the
government even my biggest detractors
agree it was an Effective Government in
terms of getting getting stuff done they
were angry at me for lots of stuff
because I I sort of uh broke rank from
what was before then either you're if
you're right you only fight for the
rightwing camp and you got to be against
the left Wingers and I do not agree to
that anymore I think while I Harbor my
opinions and I will fight for them we
have to uh be able to sit together in
Broad Unity governments by partisan
governments I believe that's the only
way forward for Israel because I'll say
right right now at the start I think
that the number one problem of Israel
and challenge for the Jewish state today
is the
domestic uh poison and in internal
hatred between these two camps at at
levels that we've never seen before and
and what are the issues that are
dividing them I mean we're seeing
something like a Devolution into group
identity politics broadly in the west
and and I mean obviously the danger in
that at least one of the dangers is that
it undermines the primary narrative
let's say or identity that holds
everyone together so that's obviously
dangerous if you don't like a descent
into chaos but now I understand the
identity politics that char IES the
United States say in Canada the UK Etc
I'm not exactly clear what the identity
fragmentations are I guess on the Jewish
side but also between the Jews and the
Arabs in Israel so how exactly is the
domestic landscape fractionating as far
as you're concerned in Israel well uh I
believe that this is a artificially
manufactured uh
grouping uh for political reasons
because there's a lot of benefit in
creating camps in politics because you
have your base and you eat them up and
you get them mad at the other side um
but I I think it's phony I I think it's
not predicated on on real big debates
because here's the interesting thing and
you ask me about
issues if you actually analyze the big
issues that supposedly uh uh tear
ourselves apart uh actually most
Israelis agree on them it's three areas
it's religion and state it's the
judicial form and it's the Palestinian
issue okay so I can tell you in in 40
seconds where almost everyone agrees
that on religion uh Israel is a Jewish
State we want our kids to uh love our
tradition to love our heritage our
history to be knowledgeable about it but
we're also against laws that coerce
religion and I'd say 80% of the Israeli
Jews agree on that so this is a
artificial
uh battle which is is done for political
reasons on the judicial issue also here
there's fairly simple compromise
basically what happened over the past 40
years was the judicial system um
usurped uh a lot of power from the
executive from the government but over
the past seven years there there's been
a a a very gradual incremental re
balancing so we have many more um
conservative judges who say this is not
our business government I love hearing
that when a judge says this should not
come to the court this should be a
political decision and um so the whole
craze about the judicial reform uh in my
opinion was mainly
about the terrible way the government
introduced it it didn't introduce uh uh
uh change in order to improve the lives
of our people it it it seemed and it
articulated vagant uh uh we're against
the other side we're going to aggravate
those lefties and again I'm a right-wing
guy but I don't think that when I'm
prime minister or education Minister my
goal in life is to get the other side to
be terrified or uh aggravated right so
has the I I I would call it a poke you
in the eye
attitude so it's more about that and
even on the Palestinian issue um the de
facto argument today it almost doesn't
exist and I'll explain for for about 50
years there's been a big divide where
the left supported a two-state solution
and the right opposed it um the past 20
years the second
inada and especially now post October
7th mainstream Israeli do not believe
anymore that we should be uh founding a
Palestinian State certainly not in the
near future so um we agree that right
now One Way Or Another We're not going
to allow a Palestinian state so why not
be together in government and we can
defer continuing to argue about it in 68
years where I'll argue and fight against
that they'll support it but in the short
term there's no disagreement so there's
no support for a two Sol nobody yeah I I
think it would be a total disaster but
there's others who think that I'm wrong
which is fine we can uh argue and debate
that uh in between us eight years from
now we don't have to waste our energy
right now since I joined forces with the
dailywire plus we've built a
comprehensive collection of Premium
content get the entire collection of
mastering life strengthen your
relationship with my series marriage in
the series on masculinity discovered
your purpose Envision and Destiny
develop a vision for your own life you
need to do that my new series
negotiation offers practical steps to
help you close a deal where both sides
walk away with a win we're also offering
a three-part series on success how to
strengthen your family and to strengthen
your relationships and to aim up people
are struggling with depression and
anxiety you walk through all of that how
do you cope with it what's the best
pathway forward in addition we've
explored biblical writings and their
cultural influence our new 10p part
series series on the gospels delineates
the accounts of the New Testament
writings and finally join me on a
Journey Through Time foundations of the
West the work I'm doing with the daily
wire brings the spirit of Adventure
forward join us on daily wire plus
today so this judicial issue so my sense
is that I mean I've seen arguably
similar moves in Canada in particular
where the Judiciary has increasingly
taken on the role of the legislative
branch partly because the legislators
don't like to make complex decisions and
then they default to the Judiciary which
is not a good thing in the long run
because it undermines parliamentary
Supremacy that's right so it has
something analogous to that been going
on in Israel and and you and you said
there's been a rebalancing but that it
was handled badly on the messaging side
it became what what did it become become
something like a battle between the the
legisl branch in the Judiciary yes I
mean that that's that's well you
basically articulated it precisely right
uh as I said in the past we had a fairly
um
minimalistic uh Supreme Court that was
very uh
hesitant uh and not inclined to to
cancel laws or uh to to override the
government that did it from time to time
but on a very uh cautious
way what happened the beginning the late
80s primarily um was the the Supreme
Court became way more active and
gradually began uh cancelling laws and
creating its own um self-made
constitution based on on the what's
called basic laws in Israel but they
went too far and the was that primarily
a leftist movement in on the on on the
Judiciary side I would say so I would
say uh yeah yeah now in many cases you
you said it so right uh in many cases it
it was a result of government not being
courageous enough to solve some uh uh or
to figure out some very fundamental
issues like the uh draft law of ultra
Orthodox so the the um when the
politicians are not courageous enough
they throw it to to the Supreme court
and then they uh attacked the Supreme
Court for getting involved in what they
couldn't solve now there was already a a
gradual process of rebalancing it was
happening in prior to this craze of the
past couple of years so things were on
track to gradually get better I remember
as Minister you know what as prime
minister uh I cannot recall one event
where I wanted to get something done and
I knew how I'm going to do
it and the legal folks uh stopped me I
do remember as a minister there was one
or two cases that it really got me angry
and I thought these uh um you know the
judicial system is too too aggressive
but it was on track and then the
government came and as I said they
talked about a revolution uh they said
we're fed up with those lefties and and
it's funny because I'm a right-wing guy
but the what they came to do was to
punish the other side to terrify the
other side and guess what they succeeded
the other side which is lots of very
decent people about half of the country
that you know serve in the military risk
their lives pay taxes hardworking people
much of the middle class in Israel the
secular middle class they indeed got
terrified they felt subjectively that
there's a government that wants to
punish them and and no one should feel
that their government hates them and
that created a a rebound effect of these
huge protests and uh uh refusal to uh
serve in reserve which is a terrible
thing right because we we need our army
and and what happened essentially year
2023 was a horrible year prior to
October 7th the whole country went crazy
in this internal uh War we got
distracted from our enemies uh our enemy
saw that we're killing ourselves from
within they saw our national immune
system is getting weaker and weaker and
they waited and Bam you think that was
associated with with that internal
strife absolutely ABS the cost of
internal have done this attack two years
ago four years ago 10 years ago 12 years
ago we know from intelligence from hard
intelligence that they were following
this and you know what their biggest
mistake was that they attacked we were
doing a great job tearing ourselves
apart right that attack uh horrendous
attack stopped the The Craze and and uh
now we have another opportunity to get
our act together and we have to seize
this
opportunity so let's talk about well
first of all I'd ask you just for a
definition because there'll be lots of
people who don't know this the second
inata tell us about inata and exactly
what it
means the inada the second inada uh
started in I believe October of
2000 um where just as we have background
beginning 1993 all the way to 2000
Israel engaged in the Oslo Accords uh a
labor L government led by Yak Robin the
uh prime minister that was thereafter uh
assassinated uh they believed that we
need to reach a compromise with the the
Palestinians and ultimately
uh believed in the two-state
solution at that time I was a soldier I
opposed it but I could understand the
other side I can understand that they
had a theory that if we hand over land
they'll they'll fulfill the Palestinians
will fulfill their National aspirations
and will live live side by side by peace
and a a slim majority of
Israelis support that yeah hence um what
happened was already in the
9s um as we handed more land over to the
Palestinians it started in the labor
government then Netanyahu continued and
handed I believe about 133% of of uh
Judean Samaria the aka the West Bank uh
to the Palestinians we began seeing more
and more terror from the very areas we
vacated uh what happened in the oso
Accords though was the the Palestinians
formed an entity a government uh called
the Palestinian Authority
and a big tract of uh of uh judan
Samaria of the
controversial uh territories was handed
to them almost half and they govern it
to this day what happened in October
2000 there was a a violent um uprise and
war against Israel that started and it
manifested itself in um da suicide
attacks that uh where Palestinians came
in usually with uh explosive vest
entered a a bus in Tel Aviv or Jerusalem
blew themselves up killing a dozen
Israelis almost every day it was
horrible it was a terrible period And I
I I had been living in Manhattan running
my company but the R&D Center was in
Israel was back and forth uh uh and uh
finally we had enough and in March of
2002 we uh went forward with operation
defensive shield and we
recaptured um uh the the those
territories militarily and to this day
uh we have the the the way it runs is
they govern themselves on the civilian
aspect so we don't they have their own
government they had elections uh it's a
democratic government though they only
had elections once mhm um they pay their
own taxes they have their own Anthem
their own Parliament what what have you
but the over overall security
responsibility is Israel's and that's
why we don't have this sort of uh Terror
stemming from the PA that we saw from
Gaza today marks a solemn anniversary
one year since a devastating attack That
Shook Israel to its core claiming 1,00
lives and leaving 250 taken hostage it
was the most tragic day for the Jewish
people since the Holocaust a moment that
will forever be etched in our Collective
memory but the story continues the war
in Israel rages on with tensions
escalating to new heights just this
month Iran Unleashed a barrage of nearly
200 ballistic missiles at the Holy Land
Israel stands besieged facing threats
from all sides in these harrowing times
the International Fellowship of
Christians and Jews stands as a Beacon
of Hope they're on the ground providing
vital support food shelter and safety to
those caught in the crossfire of this
crisis since the war started thousands
of reservists everyday Israeli citizens
have left their families to serve their
country soldiers have been injured and
their families need support this is
where you come in your gift of $45 can
make a world of difference it helps the
fellowship provide essential supplies to
these families ensuring they don't face
hunger while their loved ones are on the
front lines to help the fellowship
continue this urgent work please go to
Jordan for the fellowship.org and donate
now your support can be the lifeline
these families desperately need that's
Jordan forthe fellowship.org
[Music]
okay okay so so let me switch a bit to
to I'm going to ask you a complicated
question I want to lay out if you don't
mind how the situation in Israel looks
to me not that that's particularly
important but it'll give you a chance to
restructure the story if NE
I I want to tell you how it looks to me
from the outside and I've been trying to
sort this out very carefully in my
imagination to so that I can have a
clear head about the about the
circumstances in the Middle East okay so
I'm going to start with the Abraham
Accords
and they're they're very striking to me
because I saw a number of the first
thing they indicate is that there are
profound divisions within the Arab world
with regard to Israel and how Israel
should be treated and dealt with and the
Abraham Accords formalized in agreement
with a number of Arab states that Israel
should be regarded as a valuable trading
partner now the reason for that as far
as I'm concerned is
threefold the previous approach wasn't
working Israel's proved itself to be an
economic powerhouse it's starting to
it's like a second uh Silicon Valley in
many ways there are extreme economic
advantages to partnering with Israel
trading with Israel and learning from
the Israeli experience and then Israel
is also a formidable
military P Powerhouse and so the
combination of those three things was
sufficient along with some alteration in
the stance on the more forward-looking
Arab side to make agreements of peace
with Israel a reality and we we saw that
happen in the Abraham Accords now my
sense is the Abraham Accords are viewed
with something you might describe as
extreme skepticism and horror even by
the Iranians most fundamentally because
they don't want to see that they're
they're sworn enemies of the United
States they are sworn enemies of Israel
they're sworn enemies of many of the
Arab states that signed the Abraham
Accords they are seriously not happy
about this and they'll do anything to
undermine and destroy it along with
Israel and the United States and so okay
so then let's think about that in
relationship to Palestine so let you're
putting forward something approximating
a two-state solution that's been a
solution that's been proferred in the
past but the problem with the two-state
solution is it's predicated on the idea
that the parties involved in
establishing the states want States and
they want peace and my sense of it is
that Iran would sacrifice every single
Palestinian in a heartbeat if they could
do serious damage to Israel and the
United States in doing so and Iran
continually funds the agitators in let's
say Hamas and Hezbollah for example to
do nothing but cause Israel in the
United States problems and they don't
give a damn in any way shape or form
about the Palestinians and so I don't
understand at all first of all how the
Israelis can negotiate with the
Palestinians with the Iranians lurking
behind them doing nothing but to cause
causing trouble and funding at every
possible opportunity every way of
breaking down any possibility of Peace
because what do they care whether the
Palestinians make peace with the
Israelis that's just annoying to them
from a foreign policy perspective so I
don't see any Victory I don't see any
potential for solving that problem as
long as Iran is pulling the strings
behind the scenes it's in their best
interest given their stated foreign
policy objectives to keep the
Palestinians and the Israelis at each
other's throats for as long as possible
and if that does in the Palestinian
people oh well you know collateral
damage in the in the bigger game so and
then okay so and I I want to add it now
now so uninformed people in the west
might be thinking that by standing with
the poor oppressed Palestinians they're
what would you say they're they're
showing their solidarity with the
oppressed people of the world right and
but they're they're certainly not allied
with the mainstream of peaceloving Arabs
around the world peac loving Muslims as
far as I'm concerned and they're
crawling into bed with a state that's
hated not least by its own people like
it's a brutal awful terrible State and
it wants to destroy the United States
and Israel and so all the protesters on
American campuses who are hypothetically
supporting the poor oppressed victimized
Palestinians and I know there's plenty
of complex things to say about that are
really acting as proxy agents for Iran
and the command he came out on X Twitter
not very many months ago and basically
said exactly that congratulating the
American protesters for example for
supporting his agenda right I mean it
was it was mind-boggling it didn't seem
to slow down the protests at all okay so
the first question having laid that out
is like is there anything that I miss
with regards to the the positioning of
Iran in relationship to Israel in the
United States I I think uh you've hit
the nail on its head um about a decade
ago I um came up
with a strategy against Iran and I
called it the octopus uh Terror octopus
or octopus strategy the first thing was
to understand what's going on and then
you can build a strategy what's going on
in the Middle East is about 70% of the
problems in the entire Middle East stem
from the Islamic Republic of Iran um I I
would view it it's a a very radical
regime by the way also incompetent and
corrupt a bit similar to the Soviet
Union of the
80s um but what it does it exports its
ideology and Terror with its arms all
across the Middle East every country it
touches it It ultimately destroys it's
like the anti-as Touch look at Lebanon
look at Syria look at Iraq it's like it
it Yemen so in all these places it it uh
builds a a local proxy sometimes based
on Shiites that live there but not
always for example Hamas is a Sunni
organization it uh has uh it empowers
them it funds them it provides them
weapons it trains s them and ultimately
it also uh commands them to to uh
generate Terror not only against Israel
generally but also against Israel now um
if if and and I'll I'll say straight at
the at this point we need to topple the
Iranian
regime that's what we need to do and it
will
fall the mistake that Israel has uh made
for the past 30 years and I I was a
soldier I was fighting which is
essentially the fingertip of one of its
tentacles uh the mistake was that we
have expended and and exhausted
ourselves fighting those fingertips of
the octopus and instead of directing our
energy to topple the goddamn head of the
octopus and what I did as prime minister
I gradually read I wanted to not have
wars on our borders because that's plain
to their strategy and redirected our
efforts to the head of the octopus
Israel has done a lot of work throughout
the years on the nuclear Dimension but
my point was it's not only about nuclear
let's topple the regime now how do you
do it I'm not talking about uh uh allout
War I I I look at the Cold War as a a
very good U um you
know analogy and ultimately the Soviet
Union fell without War America never
bombed you know what I did when I became
prime minister I the first month of my
on my job I dedicated to deep study of
Iran its Society its economy and what
America did in the 80s to accelerate the
Topp Ling of the Soviet Union it turns
out America did a lot Reagan's America
uh empowered oppositions in Eastern
Europe why can't we do that um it it
strengthened the enemies of the Soviet
in Afghanistan mujahedin Etc later it
had unintended consequences but my point
is that we need America and Israel and
the West to apply tremendous diplomatic
uh economic pressures and covert overt
cyber lots of stuff to accelerate the
demise of Iran this regime will fall
because it's much weaker than we think
so to continue the what sort of support
do you think the Iranian government
has in Iran itself I mean my sense very
little it's despised by its people I'm
I'm I'm saying this as a fact um it it
has all the plagues of uh um this sort
of regime the the children of the
leaders are all corrupt you know driving
in in their uh cars Lamborghinis
whatever while the people in in many
areas of Iran don't even have good tap
water right and it could be a very rich
country
it was doing quite well in the 70s on
hug yeah and and um so I believe that
it's this regime will topple will fall
either but it could be in 50 years or it
could be in five years and what what I
did when I met uh the bid Administration
and and the folks there outlined um a
bunch of about 30
different vectors of action that we can
take soft action and sort of divided the
job between us and them there's some
areas that we could give you an example
every time there's protests there you
know what the first thing the regime
does it turns off the internet so you
can't communicate why don't we ensure
the that the internet's on with
Technologies like starlink Etc there's
lots of stuff easy stuff cheap stuff
that we can do to accelerate the the the
top Ling all we need to do is help the
Iranian people which are a great people
and unfortunately um my essor
discontinued this uh policy but I think
it's time to to go so what what sort of
what do you see happening in the west in
the United States with the rest of the
Western countries with regard to their
stance Contra Iran and I'd like to hear
about what you think is being done
that's actually effective and also what
you think could is being done that isn't
effective or counterproductive by and
large uh uh they're not doing enough uh
and everything I
described um there's a bunch of moderate
Arab states uh Saudis Emirates Bahrain
Egypt let's say Jordan I I there's lots
of subtleties here but uh I I would just
say all of them hate radical Islam hate
radical Islam in one of two strands
either the Shiite strand which is Iran
or the Sunni strand which is the Muslim
Brotherhood they can't always voice this
publicly but they they need Israel to
lead the way they need they the their
biggest dream is for Israel to to step
up to the plate and step up to the plate
and what in relationship to radical
Islam fight radical Islam weaken it uh
uh choke the the money there's so much
that we can do with great Roi I mean
it's not not the most complicated stuff
that we're not doing America uh is
perceived in the region and I'm I'm not
going to talk about one side or another
as uh unstable and sort of doesn't see
things
through so you know you might be there
today but you're out tomorrow and in
this sense Israel is there we're we're
here to stay we didn't choose our
neighborhood but we're stuck in the
neighborhood and we're a reliable
partner uh granted October 7th we took a
hit on our credibility because it should
not have happened but I think uh we're
we're in the process of uh strengthening
again and you know stuff that's happened
over the past month or so um that that
seemed pretty clever that that that's
the sort of thing that we got to be
doing
so let's talk about radical Islam for a
minute and maybe we can use that as a
entry point into discussing the
relationship between religion and
politics more broadly yes and because I
would really like to do that so the
first issue is
it's it's interesting to me that there
are a variety of forward-looking leaders
in the Muslim world who for example have
been pushing forward the Abraham Accords
normalization of relations with Israel
but even more importantly the
establishment of truly productive
relations so it's obviously that within
the broader confines of the Islamic
world the possibility for peace and
productive peace exists absolutely so
now that now now then the next issue I'm
trying to work this out in the West in
general so you know there's always a
percentage of truly Bad actors in any
population so the psychological data
indicates that the prevalence of pure
psychopathy in the population is to be
conservative let's say 3% so those
serious those are seriously Bad actors
and we want to say a few things about
the psychopathic types okay so they're
mellan they only use their language to
manipulate for their own benefit right
they're parasitic predators that makes
them
Psychopathic the they're narcissistic
which means they want undeserved
attention and will do anything to get it
and to top it all off because that's not
enough they have strong proclivity
towards sadism which is positive Delight
in the unnecessary suffering of others
okay so these are Bad actors now the
question is how do they operate and we
actually know the answer to that they
like to hide behind a mask of
victimization because that's very
effective so a the psychopathic types
are always claiming that they're the
victims and that there are people they
can identify as oppressors and the moral
thing is to stand with them but the
other thing they do is hijack the
political agenda on both sides so for
example the Psychopaths will use
compassion to manipulate the left and
they'll use Free Speech issues to
manipulate the right but they don't care
because they're not political at all
what they are is out for themselves 100%
And then what even makes the situation
more dire is that the psychological
literature indicating that the
psychopathic types can be uh
rehabilitated is dismal to say the least
they can't it's to know no is the simple
answer and and again I'm speaking of I'm
speaking let's say of the 1% criminals
who are responsible for 65% of the
crimes it's not corrigible okay okay now
you know a person who deviates from the
path of Law and Order and makes a
mistake once that's a whole different
issue but I don't think that this is the
explanation to what's going on in the
Islamic world because while there are
psychopaths like Saddam Hussein was a
psychopath uh definitely and Yaya sinir
was a psychopath I'm not sure other
radical Islam leaders are necess
necessarily Psychopaths I think uh they
truly believe that the world uh needs to
act according to Sharia law and well
this is what I'm trying to untangle it's
like it's such a difficult thing because
you have on the one hand the obvious
fact that there are there's much
movement in the Islamic world to
establish peace with Israel and to move
their populations forward in a
productive manner but then you have this
this core and separating out the
religious claims from the manipulation
of the religious claims by the
self-interested Psychopaths that's
that's a very difficult thing to manage
I think what undermines this case uh is
the numbers uh I I think I look I don't
have the data uh regarding what
percentage of uh Muslims support radical
Islam I'm not saying they engage in
terrorism but they support my hunches a
fairly high percent
and and and we can't just attri are they
better are the okay I push back slightly
because well I'm wondering you know is
that also because it's easier for the
psychopathic self-interested
manipulators to manipulate a
comparatively undereducated population
and to get away with their claims that
really what they're doing is abiding by
the doctrines of the one true religion
right you know because when you're
dealing with a population whose
fundamental idiot
structure is encapsulated within a
single religious Viewpoint it's a lot
easier for the Bad actors to manipulate
that so so so they they definitely use
this first of all to uh deflect all
their uh um incompetence yes yes
definitely but but that's not that
doesn't mean you're a psychopath it just
means you know you're a cynical person
that want you want to continue governing
I've seen lots of people do that um and
I think the the I'll tell you what I
think about how we need to go about
fighting radical
Islam um and this is something that
evolved I think especially in the case
of of Gaza everyone asks me but Hamas is
an ideology and you can't kill an
ideology um that's half true I agree
that there's no point in trying to
persuade people don't be radical don't
be Hamas supporters Hamas enjoys a a a a
great
uh popular support in in the
Palestinians uh
population about
2/3 but there is a way to get them away
from Hamas by defeating Hamas I'll give
you an analogy uh had we you probably
know way better than me let Let's
uh hypothesis had we done a a poll in
Nazi Germany in December of 44 right
everyone knew where it's going uh my
belief I I have no basis for this is
that a vast majority of Germans still
supported the Nazi ideology it's likely
very likely y now uh within several
years after the war we had a new Germany
what happened
was there was a step be before
persuading their hearts and Minds that
Nazism is bad there was something way
more important that Nazism is
gone so first defeat Kamas first defeat
the Nazis and and and so it's no longer
a matter of whether it's good or bad
it's gone it's gone we killed them
they're done now get on with life and
only then I think I'm asking you
actually psychologically can the
individual open his mind to hear other
arguments I think there is well first of
all we hope so that that's what I think
that we need to do we need to defeat
Kamas and then begin changing the hearts
and
Minds what does the future hold for
business ask nine experts and you'll get
10 answers bull market bare Market rates
will rise rates will fall can somebody
please invent a crystal ball until then
over 38,000 businesses have found a way
to futureproof their operations with
netw Suite by Oracle the number one
Cloud Erp imagine having your accounting
financial management inventory and HR
all seamlessly integrated into one fluid
platform that's netw Suite with this
unified business management Suite you're
not just juggling numbers you're
wielding a powerful tool that gives you
the visibility and control to make quick
informed decisions it's like having a
map in a maze of Market uncertain
realtime insights and forecasting check
it's like peering into the future with
actionable data at your fingertips and
here's the game changer you'll be
closing your books in days not weeks
that means less time drowning in
paperwork and more time focusing on what
truly matters steering your business
towards success here at the daily wire
we are proud to partner with netsuite
because they are leading the way in
future proofing operations for
businesses around the world whether your
company's earning millions or even
hundreds of millions netsuite adapts to
your needs helping you respond to
immediate challenges and sees your
biggest opportunities speaking of
opportunity download the cfo's guide to
Ai and machine learning at netsuite.com
jbp the guide is free to you at nets.com
jbp that's netsuite.com
jbp well I think the I think the uh
historical preceden that you outlined
are the correct ones the same thing
happened in Japan and very rapidly right
and very thoroughly I mean Japan went
from that warlike state that it was to a
very peaceful and productive Society
overnight well and you can say exactly
the same thing about Germany so you know
and thank God for that all right so so
there's good historical precedent
whether that's the relevant case that's
a different issue but but it's not
unreasonable happened uh we have no uh
success in in a uh
sustainable uh Arab
democracies it's just a fact uh you know
you look none of the countries in the
Middle East even the stable ones are
democracies and it gets you thinking
that maybe we're we're trying to to
implement something to to square a
circle and maybe there needs to be some
sort of uh um hybrid give you an example
uh uh one of one of the great leaders
today I believe is Sheik Muhammad bin Z
of the Emirates he's a remarkable guy uh
and are the Emirates a full-blown
democracy no they aren't but is he doing
good is the uh Vector a good one
absolutely and so we have to be creative
about these sort of
things not impose our um values and
structors where it won't necessarily
succeed well we don't this this gets us
further down the religious Rabbit Hole
too we don't know what the grounds for
democracy are right you know you
democracy emerged in its modern form as
an offshoot of judeo-christian culture
and I think you can make a strong case
that and and i' I've I've felt this
particularly from studying the thinkers
of the Scottish Enlightenment is that
once the presumptions of judeo-christian
morality are axiomatic it's possible to
erect a democracy that's functional and
stable that's very interesting there are
preconditions for Liberal individualism
and one of the preconditions is that
your Society is basically peaceful and
everybody trusts one another right and
then while now you can all go out there
and be individual and liberal and vary
in your in your in your creative ways
and that'll work it isn't fluke
obviously that there aren't functional
democracies in the Arab world now why
there aren't fun functional democracies
are a hard thing to pull off and there's
many places in the world that don't have
functional democracies are hard in
America and in Israel as well yes
exactly exactly and they've had a hard
time really getting going in South
America for example like the one
countries that were settled by England
tend to have functional democracies and
countries that were settled by any other
country France Spain Portugal and
Israel's a a a remarkable miracle in
that sense uh because the Jews had been
in Exile in diaspora for 2,000 years
they didn't have uh um you know we were
organized in small communities not in
not as a nation and and to have these
folks come from all around the world
back to our our homeland and and form a
stable democracy it in itself is a
miracle that's for sure well but but you
know when when you think about it it it
makes sense because uh uh
Judaism uh as it evolved in in the
diaspora and previously in the two
previous States uh we had in in
Israel was a very Democratic uh and open
for debate Society let me tell you
something open for debate yeah debate is
at the the core of Judaism you know uh
when when you have the the um Orthodox
Jews study talmud talmud essentially
people don't know what I'm gon to about
this talmud is sort of the a law code of
of Judaism but the talmud's not about
the bottom line it's not a set of it's
not a book of rules it's very you can
fill a library with it what it is it's
debates between rabbis
they debate the most Arcane uh uh
strange topics but no one cares about
the bottom line you learn to debate it's
a very uh intellectually challenging uh
thing it's like like a combination of
mathematics and and um
logic but it's all about debate and then
400 years later uh rabbis in Europe
continued the or or in North Africa
continued the debate layers of of debate
and and the meth method of of study in
Judaism is also unique it's
called here's how they taught Jews for
Millennia two guys sit one next to
another and learn together and debate
that's what they do you don't sit the
the structure was not a teacher in a
classroom and we've been doing this for
thousands of years and I believe by the
way that's part of the secret of of the
startup nation is that we're such a
debating people and at its best it
brings you Innovations I remember in my
startup company we were yelling at each
other the whole time you know anyone who
came into my company heard screaming
between the VPR andd and and but but it
was positive uh at its worst it it can
tear apart societies when the debate is
not for the right
reasons yeah well so so that means
upward oriented debate well it seems to
me
that it seems to me that
that implies that maybe one of the
things that the Jewish State and
Christian or judeo-christian democracies
have in common is something like a
conceptualization or an embodiment of
the logos right the idea that the way
that you make progress forward is
through thought and that's mediated by
speech and that speech has to be free
and it can be intense yes and so think
about that the the the most respect Ed
person in in the community for those
2,000 years was the rabbi and the rabbi
was typically the smartest guy he was
best at studying TMO that's how the the
the you know the most famous uh rabbis
like myones who was also a physician and
the they first and foremost they were
the best at study and by the way they
also got the the best uh their children
got the best marriages of usually the
most wealthy and that
a very positive cycle genetic cycle um
which made for very smart folks all
across the Jewish World um the good
thing is that rabbis get married and
have kids priests do not and so so you
take a really smart guy but then he
doesn't have descendant yeah that's
that's a problem yeah yeah by the way in
Israel today Israel is the only Western
country in the world with uh positive
demographic that's a remarkable thing
too it is and wonder why why do you
think I don't know you don't know I
don't know you know I have all kinds of
ideas by the way people think it's only
because of the ultra Orthodox because
they do have a lot of kids but even if
you carve them out the secular uh are
also net positive you need 2.1 to retain
a population we're at about 2.3 with the
secular and all in all at three kids per
per family I don't know exactly why yeah
well that's a real mystery I mean it it
seems to indicate something you know
it's a wild hypothesis that there's a
certain degree of of existential threat
that might optimally facilitate the
desire to have children right I I I I
agree I I think that's part of it you
can be more Cavalier I suppose about
life in general like one of the things I
noticed about being in Jerusalem I've
been there a couple of times is the
intensity of life it's unbelievably
intense Place Jerusalem is intense yeah
people you know in some ways people are
conducting themselves as if tomorrow is
uncertain now they're wealthy and they
have opportunity but tomorrow is still
uncertain and I wonder if you know
Hemingway said at one point that every
generation needed a war to sort out what
was important and sufficient existential
threat might play that role of focusing
and you're on to a very Salient Point um
and because October
7th shook us I grew up I was born in 7 2
a year before yum kipur War which was
sort of the last time that we thought
existentially that we were um at a
threat so I I don't I cannot remember it
and I my uh childhood in in Mount Carmel
and kifa was very similar by the way to
the mountains over here um was a very
standard and regular Western childhood
and my whole generation grew up taking
Israel for granted we we did not feel
that there's any existential threat
October
7th shook that uh that uh
complacency uh we Now understand it
again what what's evolved from October
7th by the way this is a fascinating
Insight that not many people are aware
of on October 7th basically there's two
stories one is a massive uh
institutional failure of the state of
Israel on our most fundamental objective
which is to protect Jews from RS from a
a long Massacre and Jews being helpless
you know we've always had Terror but a
terror attack usually wraps itself up
within 5 Seconds to five minutes it's
done this was different so it was a a
huge failure of intelligence of
operations and the government melted
down for the month subsequent so that's
the bad news but the amazing news is
that we uh discovered that the younger
generation of Israel boys and girls
let's say from 18 to
40 are incredibly strong tough
courageous willing to sacrifice their
lives let me illustrate this on that
morning of Sabbath October 7th as the
news percolated thousands of Israelis
boys and girls got in their cars
civilians and drove down to the Gaza
area to to fight and defend people
they've never met there are brothers and
sisters that they've never met many of
them lost their lives while doing it um
and and that is the Supreme uh level of
courage and and you know I I was in uh
in Manhattan on September 11th that's
where my headquarters were I remember
the the buildings on fire and there was
a river of people running away to the
North or walking very quickly to the
north only the fire Fighters went South
which is okay people move from Harm's
Way but this younger generation on
October
7th just went and fought sometimes with
their bare hands sometimes with a pistol
against machine guns and these boys and
girls are the toughest we've had and you
know when I compare them to boys and
girls of their age let's say 21 year
olds uh let's say here in America I do a
lot of
universities and I see the nonsense that
they're being fed with or or the way
they're being developed versus our kids
it's not that I would choose this it's a
horrible thing to have to fight Wars but
we are developing I I coin the term a
nation of lions a courageous younger
generation tough
resilient um being embedded with uh uh
values of uh work ethic working as a
team dedicating yourself spending 10
months fighting terrorists and
then I I I I see what kids here you know
they they need the right pronoun
otherwise they're triggered and they
need a safe space and microaggressions
and all all this nonsense which neurotic
suffering builds very feeble people
because the I have a news flash the
world out there is a tough world and you
need strong kids and the reason I'm so
optimistic about the next 50 years of
Israel this is our finest generation you
remember American uh GIS came back from
Europe and They Carried America for its
best 50 years from 45 to let's say 2000
these boys and girls including my own
son and daughter my my oldest son Yoni
he's now joined the army in a combat
unit but he he was still a civilian this
year you know what he did the entire
year he volunteered with uh children of
evacuees and went to do farming because
we didn't have uh hands to do it my
daughter was volunteering and farming
but they're typical they're not unique
and I'm so darn proud of them and I know
that that year of farming or or fighting
is developing them so much more than any
University so by the time they're going
to enter this civilian uh world after
Army we are Manufacturing these super
men and women who are going to carry
Israel forward Innovation uh
self-reliance responsibility they're
going to be
amazing when we think about wildly
successful businesses we often focus on
their great products cool branding and
Brilliant marketing but there's an
unsung hero in their success stories the
business behind the business that makes
selling simple for millions of
entrepreneurs that business is Shopify
Shopify is home to the number one
checkout on the planet and here's the
not so secret secret with shop pay they
boost conversions up to 50% that means
fewer abandoned carts and more completed
sales our marketing team uses Shopify
every day to sell our merchandise and we
love how easy it is to add more items
ship products and track conversions in
today's market growth-minded businesses
need a Commerce Solution that's just as
flexible and dynamic as they are whether
your customers are browsing your website
scrolling through social media or
wandering into your store Shopify
ensures you're ready to sell ready to at
your business upgrade your business
today and get the same checkout daily
wire uses sign up for your $1 per month
trial period at shopify.com jbp all
lowercase go to shopify.com jbp today to
upgrade your selling that's shopify.com
jbp you we don't know how much that like
kind of a heroic commitment to the
Future has to be inculcated or developed
in young men and young women so that
they'll take up the responsibility for
example well any responsibility for that
matter but certainly the responsibility
of having a family and so and I guess
part of the problem possibly with being
wealthy and secure is that you can
always it always appears as though you
can put things off yes right you can
always wait another day another yeah
well Tick Tock man life's short and you
miss things a lot faster than you think
and so you know like I've calculated for
example and I think this is about right
that the typical person is lucky with
regard to so we know for example that
half of women in the west now will be
childless at 30 and half of them will
never have a child right that's the 90%
of them appears will regret it that's
one in four so it's one in two at 30 who
don't have a partner or a child be this
is already uh you know I came back from
South Korea last week yeah they're at
0.8 they're not having kids and and
you're going to have one kid who's going
to have to support four grandparents and
it's just crazy well not sustainable I I
was thinking about establishing a
relationship you know you're a fortunate
person indeed if you get to try out five
people in your lifetime like you you you
know you know people don't understand
how constrained the choice realm is even
for people who are highly successful
like you could easily be I imagine it's
probably one in five people who don't
have five people to choose from you know
in the course of yeah yeah in terms of
sequential relationships well you imag
imagine it
takes what if if the person's a stranger
it takes a year to sort of assess them
something like that really well I mean
that well that's the question like how
long does it take you to reasonably
assess someone romantically and
practically as a long-term partner you
know it's going to be something between
six months and a year because not not
that I'm I'm not espousing this but the
the ultra Orthodox Jews yeah they um
they they don't have any of this they
have set marriages they they have an
opportunity to to meet three four times
but that's about it and then they get
married and with very low divorce rates
I you know I cannot attest whether
they're happy they're unhappy I've got
no idea but uh it's very interesting it
gets you thinking yeah well definitely
and it it well it's a complicated
problem to solve and so you're lucky if
you have five kicks at the can and
that's and and you know that's
completely independent of the question
of whether Alternative forms of marital
Arrangement are more appropriate lots of
cultures have use them and I don't think
there's any evidence at all that those
people are necessarily more unhappy or
that the relationships are less stable
right I think me people in those
relationships probably assume that
they're going to have to do some work on
an ongoing basis to make it work right
from the beginning but but my point is
more that it's easy to overestimate the
amount of time you have have to do
anything like the window to have
children is relatively short the window
to get married it is very short and the
advantage of a certain degree of
existential threat is it brings that
home it does right and so you know what
we're continuing that point the there's
now a very positive um wave of young men
and women the most talented that I get
phone calls almost every day of amazing
people that would have gone to the
private sector and now they say you know
we need to save Israel MH and we're
we're going to get this uh influx of the
the most talented people because this
was not the case in Israel by and large
for the past several decades very you
know the best of the best went to
Hightech uh and now we're going to get
some of them or even uh successful
entrepreneurs entering uh politics I'm
I'm fairly rare I think I'm I'm the only
uh certainly the only prime minister was
a CEO of a company but founder in in in
politics I'm one of the very few that
came from Hightech and founded a company
ran two companies uh knows business and
we're going to get this um best and
brightest into Israel's public sector
and that's why I'm I'm incredibly
optimistic except barring the one issue
which I talked about which is the
domestic Wars if you know uh uh I the
polarization polarization I think
Lincoln said A house divided cannot
stand and that that is true with the
Jews especially true with the Jews do
you know Jordan the current state of
Israel is the third instance we have a
sovereign Jewish state in the land of
Israel we had it twice before what's
called first temple that was King David
and Solomon then several hundred years
later the second temple um for several
hundred years but what people don't
realize that in in our first
Commonwealth and second one we
were United and Sovereign only for about
years uh David's grandchild rabam
Solomon's son he screwed up and the the
Kingdom of Israel divided into Judea two
tribes and Israel 10 tribes and they
never got together again and
subsequently the Assyrians conquered
Israel those 10 tribes and uh we lost
lost them we lost 80% of the Jewish
people and all Jews today are
descendants of Judea that's why we're
called Jews so it it was because of an
internal divide that we lost our
sovereignty fast forward to our second
Commonwealth also it went on as a
sovereign state only 75 years the
hashman ites uh Judah the makabe ETC
their great-grandchildren there were two
brothers who fought each other in year
76 of of the Kingdom I think we're
talking about ad80 BC uh and and it was
Jews who
invited the Romans into Judea back then
we were so stupid because we couldn't
get along and and now Israel's in its
eighth decade and this time we have to
get it right because I you know the most
important thing is the The Eternity of
of the state of Israel but my point is
what killed us twice before was domestic
divide internal division not external
enemies so I want to return to the issue
of there's two issues you brought up
that I'd like to discuss if that's okay
everyone outside of Israel and obviously
many people within Israel are
wondering how did the events of October
7th come about now we already outlined
the the the structure of the of Israel's
external enemies have Iran you have them
in cahoots with Hamas there's all sorts
of bad players there so they're just
looking for an opport
you said the internal division that was
obvious in Israel a massive distraction
you know if if our enemies could choose
one wish it would be year 2023 the
internal divide like if if you were a
genie and you came to and said what do
you what do you pray for he would say
that that there's internal division
those eight or nine ter 10 months 10
terrible months of division where we're
killing each other so that that's his
best wish right right and and as I said
had they not attacked I don't know what
what would have been left of our country
because we were killing ourselves and
and uh it it it so seemed almost in
insolvable unsolvable and uh so I I
would call it weapon of mass distraction
right uh is is what happened we don't
need you know there's tons of Iranian
Bots that are fermenting uh and Russian
Bots but we're doing a good enough job
killing ourselves even without the
Iranians and the Russians and we
Israelis have to tackle this and solve
it right and the only way in my opinion
is Unity governments left and right
bipartisan for the next
decade to bring the Waring sides
together yeah because you're in the 10
you know right well you are anyways
right you're stuck with each other
anyways regardless of how divided you
are well the same thing is the case in
the United States with the 5050 divide
between Republicans and the Democrats
you've seen over the past uh 30 40 years
you know that those famous polls that
would you have your child marry someone
who's Democratic if you're a Republican
and and the huge divide which happened
in America and and that sort of thing
might happen in Israel if we that that's
where it gets terrible because it's fine
to have different policies but I won't
marry someone who you know whose parents
hold a different political opinion yeah
because it's not about opinions it's
about
tribalism in in the negative sense yeah
so one of the things that's very
mysterious to Outsiders and as I said
likely ises themselves is like how do
you account in a non- finger pointing
way let's
say for this apparent massive security
failure like when I look at that I
think I'm trying to put myself in the
position of the security people and I
know you know a tiny bit about security
having to be concerned about it from
time to time um it's a lot harder to
keep things secure than it looks yes
there's lots of points of attack and
entry and unless your state is
totalitarian to the extreme and you're
watching everyone for every second God
only knows what your enemies are going
to get up to well I I think the the the
there's a couple of things so we talked
about one the fact that we weakened
ourselves and distracted ourselves I
mean quite literally we were focusing
not on our enemies but on ourselves
and and and by the way right so
fragmented attention and and and think
of uh when you have very talented and
smart people using their energy to kill
each other they'll do a good job at it
because Israelis tend to be very
talented and smart so if you direct it
inward you'll kill yourself that's
that's definitely you know I I think
this would not have happened if we
didn't have that horrible year of 2023 I
also would say um that that this is sort
of sort of a a rule in history of of
mental
rigidity uh of uh of leaderships sort of
a what happens in in terms of
intelligence um think Stalin Barbarosa
Stalin Barbarosa he had the German Army
amass hundreds of thousands I believe
even millions of soldiers on the border
with the Soviet Union you had all the
information there but there was a
concept and the a worldview that
he he was convinced that there's going
to be peace with Hitler Hitler and he
didn't let the facts confuse him to some
extent that happened here um
we we looked down at Kamas Kamas was
sort of the the weak uh little brother
the the um the government had erected uh
you know this big wall and fence uh with
all these gadgets and technology and it
was it was a sense that it cannot be
penetrated
and and then when the facts uh began
coming I think there was a not good
environment in the
intelligence system that did not Foster
descent um the best things happen when
when anyone can speak up and at the end
a military organization is not
Democratic and somehow we know now that
some people had uh thought that there
there would be attack but they were were
silenced it's a terrible thing um what I
try to do in any organization I run
whether it's uh uh hech company or a a
platoon or Ministry of of Education or
prime minister I I have a habit of
trying to bypass the whole hierarchies
and talk to the end people uh almost on
a random basis I I give out my cell
phone number so so I can hear what's
going on but it it's it's hierarchies
are very dangerous in that
sense so some stultification within yes
because you know you have some
distraction some presumption some
stultification of okay okay so now let's
turn to this issue of the defeat of
Hamas you you talked about your optimism
with regards to um the
restructuring the potential
restructuring of the attitude of of
people in Gaza if the Hamas Enterprise
was taken out yeah I want to qualify
that I'm I'm not sure yeah okay fine I
can talk about abilities I can't talk
about motivations I I don't
presume that we have the abilities to
drastically influence uh uh motivation
what we can do is set up a a civil
entity there uh governed by a
combination of Egypt uh local competent
folks from Gaza Saudis Emirates and stop
immediately stop the incitement in the
mosques in the media and in the schools
if we do that it might succeed it might
not right right I don't know right and
that incitement What proportion of that
do you think is is I know you don't have
an exact number but what's your sense of
the degree to which that incitement is
continually fermented by Iranian actors
for example funded at least and well
it's in in Gaza it's a mix between uh
the Iranian Iran um and the Muslim
Brotherhood uh Muslim Brotherhood is a
fairly
effective uh movement uh you know Turkey
it governs turkey and erdogan who's
who's a a real bad guy um and and in
Egypt there's a lot of uh um grassroot
support for for Muslim Brotherhood tell
us about the Muslim Brotherhood we
talked about Iran a little bit uh inform
us a little bit about the Muslim
Brotherhood and and what what it
constitutes its Origins and so forth so
so um I I believe it started uh fairly
early in in the previous Century uh and
the idea is
to to radicalize the people and
ultimately to govern by Sharia law by
religion uh precisely and independent
variant of the
same ethos that that that possesses the
Islamic Republic of right though Muslim
Brotherhood is sunite and sunite whereas
Iran is Shi right so it's a different
strand of Islam uh Muslim Brotherhood
does a lot of social activities in order
to Garner uh popular support and and
it's a fairly simple ideology in that
sense and they have
um you know
branches everywhere okay so let's let's
talk about the the military and
sociological aims of Israel post October
7th so um first of all I guess I would
here's here's a bunch of questions how
effective has Israel's military campaign
be been what do you say to people I mean
there's constant agitation with regards
to the genocide that Israel is
conducting in in Gaza and so what's your
view of the manner in which this
defensive War has been conducted and
then I would I'm very curious like
what's a vision of Victory like I'm
always curious when a war breaks out and
this is because of the way it started in
some ways it's a it's it's a it's its
own unique entity but like I'm a I'm
very confused about what a what victory
would look like and what what's the the
victory what is Victory defined by
Israel now in relationship to this
because you could win the war and lose
the public opinion ble for example
wouldn't be good so I'll I'll answer
question one three and two in okay okay
um so how's it going well uh the
military itself has been uh very
successful um very effective the
soldiers the reservists especially
Israel is based on a massive Reserve
service so you continue doing Reserve
till about 45 uh age of 45 um however in
my opinion um the government lacks a
coherent strategy and did not outline
what a victory is that precise question
we've never been told what does it
actually mean and you know I I I uh
would have gone about this whole war in
a very different way I I thought that we
should uh apply a Siege on Northern Gaza
allow all the civilian to get out but uh
we would screen and and uh basically
smoke out the terrorists from the the
tunnels without having to have so much
friction and and cost for everyone that
was not adopted that that plan a Siege
plan they decided to go in kinetically
which is a legit decision it has its uh
it has its advantages but also that is
not being prosecuted the way it should
if you're going to fight fight right now
there's no war in Gaza there's not not a
war there's no fighting going on we're
we're at 3% intensity and the notion
that Israel should have long low
intensity Wars of attrition I I I don't
buy that I think that's the wrong
strategy Israel should have short high
intensity Wars if we have to do a war
that's what we always did uh the
56 year war was just a few days The Six
Day War was indeed six days yum kipur
was two and a half weeks and suddenly
we're we're in this protracted dragged
on thing why why is it bad for us many
reasons uh first and foremost Global
opinion um needs short time span for us
to right even if it's very high
intensity lots of buildings fell or
whatever but you move on there's
something new on the agenda some I don't
know Taylor Swift comes out with the new
song and everyone changes topic but the
fact that we're ripping this and and
we're always going to be inferior in uh
World opinion so the less they talk
about us the better off we are that's
one mistake second one it it it uh it
also uh puts tremendous pressure on on
our economy on our reservists and that's
exactly what Iran wants us to do Iran
wants to exhaust us in a slow uh
dripping War that's why I
think I I would Surge and defeat and if
we're we're not going to do that I would
cut a deal a big deal with and bring the
hostages home we need them to come home
and fight another day um what does
Victory look
like again I I can say what I would have
set the parameters it's uh um Hamas
raising a white flag because of the and
and getting on ships and being
transferred the 5,000 or 10,000 kamnik
being transferred out of Gaza to some
Arab state
uh but we let them live that that would
be the deal and The Leverage would be if
you don't do that we're going to kill
you but we're not doing that so we don't
have theage are those key players
already identified th those 5,000 yeah
yeah yeah we we we you know ultimately
we're we're probably going to be able to
kill uh
yir uh and but but and get the hostages
home without the we have a hundred
hostages that Kamas is still holding a
100 Israelis that were kidnapped from
their beds at at 6:30 or 7 in the
morning just citizens of Israel and and
the most fundamental ethys in Israel is
you don't uh forget anyone you don't
leave anyone behind and this is
unacceptable in the US there's been
widespread protests especially on
University campuses but also spilling
through the cities and you see that in
London L for example you see it France
it's a worldwide campaign and so um
first of
all what's your sense of how those
campaigns were organized and who's
lurking behind the scenes there and then
I guess the next thing I'd like to know
is
what you have an opportunity many
opportunities but this is one of them at
least to to say something to people who
believe that they're on the side of the
good when they're protesting Israel's
actions in the Middle East after October
7th so let's start with those those
those protests emerged very rapidly and
they're very very very very well
organized I mean I've seen I've seen the
plans for example for the protesters and
their community at UCLA I mean it's a
multi-p unev strategy yeah so so it's at
hand right and I believe they pulled in
the antifa types and the professional
protesters and they more or less know
what they're doing but but it works
clearly clearly it's working you know I
I I I see here A A merge of two
different strands that uh almost are
opposite of each other but in in a
peculiar way uh they they they merge the
first one is radical Islam um we're not
going to change any of their minds and I
um I believe that there's significant
money um you know qari money money
Iranian money um being funneled towards
this Qatar by the way is is in my uh
eyes uh a terrible regime whose hands
are soaked in Blood and they have a
facade of uh World Cup and this and the
Olympics and stuff like that um but they
they they play a two-sided game they
they ferment support fund Terror as we
speak and they pretend to be
Western you know Progressive folks and
like Iran everyone at least knows that
Iran is a terrible regime um so that's
one strand and the other strand is
radical Progressive uh uh
woke
idiots for the lack of a better term uh
naive people who view the world in a
neom
Marxist uh frame where there's always a
vict and a victimizer and Israel you
know look I've got white skin here so I
I I'm the bad guy by definition forget
the fact that the land of Israel has
been my homeland for 3,800 years forget
the fact that the much of those 3,800
years we had a state in Israel and when
we weren't in that state we were uh
praying three times a day I I pray every
morning um we will return to Jerusalem
now we are in Jerusalem
and it's it's incredibly difficult uh to
to pull someone out of that that frame
because basically if you're the
aggressor and he's the victim he's
allowed to do anything he's allowed to
um murder people uh torture per people
because he's the victim um and factually
that that that just is not true um the
the Arabs uh have huge areas of land I
think hundreds of times the the size of
of Israel I'd let your viewers know they
probably don't know Israel and its
entirety is the size of New Jersey
that's how big we are it's a tiny tiny
country and you know before before the
Jews came back home beginning in the
late uh um
1800s um it was a desolate barren
um miserable land infested with
mosquitoes and malaria and and as there
were there was always Jewish presence
but it wasn't under Jewish um governance
but as Jews came uh around the world and
began to to flourish this this desolate
land um Arabs began coming from Iraq
from uh uh Egypt in their names
Palestinian names many many of them are
called el- masri which means Egypt Mas
is is Egypt Al bagdadi all this all that
see see that which is fine that's okay
uh but
uh the the you know go go get a life
stop being victims go go build your
future uh and it seems to me that they
their core ideologies is to prevent us
from having a state and not rather than
them having their own future sure MH
yeah well the victim victimizer
narrative is a very tell me though
you're you're I I you know because tell
me why are so many people against Israel
and what can we do about it I I'm I'm
you're the psychiatrist here or the well
I think part of it is um the politics of
envy you know the Jews are the
perennially successful minority even in
the story of Exodus the reason that the
Pharaoh Rises up against the Jews is
because they're disproportionately
successful in Egypt even though the
Egyptians were beholden to them not long
before that they're disproportionately
successful okay so Joseph helped Egypt
Thrive I me right right absolutely which
so part of that narrative is that the
influx of Jews was actually of great
utility to the Egyptian population but
then the Jews became disproportionately
successful and that always happens it
always happens and so then the issue is
well what do you do with the
disproportionately successful and the
response to that is twofold you can be
happy for the fact of their productivity
and their success because they share
their knowledge and their abilities with
everyone around them and the rising tide
lifts all boats or you can decide that
anybody who has more took it and is a
thief and a crook and there's always
corruption in every Enterprise so
there's always things you can point to
so what I see is that the Jews are also
The Perennial Canary in the coal mine
when when societies take a turn against
those who are successful and start to
Define them as criminals the Jews are
the first people to be targeted and all
that indicates is that all the Su more
in socialist uh type Societies or
communist societies that that but but it
you know well anti-Semitism also thrived
when Jews were miserable and
unsuccessful so
we weren't always not in every pocket
were we successful and yet like it's
everywhere um well there's also there's
also you know the mere fact that that
ethnic differences can easily be
inflamed and that people are radically
you know we're we're relatively insular
by our psychology you know it's me and
then it's me and my family and then it's
me and my family and my community right
it's it's harder for us to extend that
ethos of concern as people get more more
distal and there's which makes sense by
the way well of course it does because
something has to mediate in group
Identity or we wouldn't be social right
obviously I care more about my child
than a stranger right I mean right right
and you might say well you shouldn't
because there's no logical reason and
the right rejoinder to that is well I
don't have infinite resources I can't
care for every child in the world with
the same intensity as I would for my own
child because there's too many of them
and too little of me so I'm going to be
local what do you think we can do
because you know sometimes I'm
flabbergasted I I'm I'm always
interviewing that CNN BBC and all that
and and I feel sometimes I'm barely
moving the needle and and you know the
the the the reality is so different than
what we're portray and what do you think
we can do about it well I think going
after the victim victimizer narrative is
a good long-term strategy because it's
extremely pathological and so to the
degree that we've been messaging around
this that's in in various Enterprises
that I'm involved in that's what been
one of our primary targets of concern
there's something wrong with the
politics of Envy if you divide the world
up into oppressor and oppressed and now
you're good merely because you um are on
the side of the oppressed H or or are an
ally like that's just too simple a moral
equation and it's and and there's every
bit of reason for skepticism in
relationship to that but it's also very
bad for you to regard yourself as is a
victim horri because you lose agency and
you lose hope and you're subject to
someone else's wh it's so funny you know
um my dad May rest in peace uh Jim
Bennett he he he was raised uh not far
from here in San Francisco and I guess
the biggest thing I took from him was he
never whined he never complained and it
was self-reliance that's the he always
faced the whatever situation and and
took resp responsibility he didn't talk
about it he just did it one of the
things you see is so deeply ingrained in
me and and that's why when I see you
know
whiners and and not to say that there
isn't discrimination suffering aering
and there's discrimination and people
don't have the St the same uh starting
point but um it's such
a how will it be able to sustain itself
this Ultra Progressive Movement if they
manufacture people who are designed to
not take responsibility so it ought to
collapse ultimately no it historically
movements like that do collapse envious
resentful movements collapse they don't
work so well one of the things that you
see in the Old Testament accounts is
that the Jewish people are characterized
in their Covenant with God they're all
they're characterized by when they're
good they're characterized by a refusal
to construe themselves as victims so the
main upward thrusting theme in the Old
Testament accounts is the fact that the
Jews always presume that if there's
punishment wreaked upon them that that's
a consequence in some manner of their
own insufficiency and not the though uh
in in the desert during those 40 years
uh man they they were
Ling and
whining that might be the reason that
they had to spend 40 years and die out
so the Next Generation that's exactly
why they're also not presented as
morally laudable for presenting
themselves as victims right right
because Moses is on the side of God and
God and Moses share the opinion that the
Israelites who are whining away as they
make
themselves away so painfully through the
desert lost as they are by the way you
know if you've ever been to sign I if if
you walk quickly it could take seven
days right right well so so so the
upshot of the story is is that if you're
confused and resentful enough and you
have the habits of slaves it can take
you forever to get nowhere right right
and that's exactly right they just had
to die out yeah well it's three
generations right something like that
right and and that is the consequence of
their slavish habits right they're used
to being told what to do they can't
settle their own Affairs they can't
regulate their own behavior they're very
impulsive and hedonistic as soon as
Moses disappears for 15 minutes they're
off dancing naked drinking too much and
worshiping the golden cast they have the
habits of slaves right and the the the
rectification of that and this pertains
to what you talk what you said earlier
about building resilient young people is
that you don't want to raise young
people with the habits of hedonistic
slaves you want by the way uh the the
the 12 Spies so essentially 10 of the
spies came back whining
came back saying all right you know it's
going to be tough they didn't you know
they saw the Giants and all that they
it's going to be tough but it's a
beautiful wonderful land and let's go do
it well there there's there there it's
it's not surprising that that part of
the story popped into your mind because
it's very Germaine to this discussion is
that so Moses and his people are on the
threshold of the promised land right
right so they've succeeded in crossing
the desert and escaping from tyranny so
they send out Scouts right of the future
essentially right and some of the scouts
come back and say well the future is
already occupied by people we can't
possibly defeat you were nothing but a
power mongering Tyrant who led us
through the desert we were better off
with the Egyptians it's like what's
going on here if I remember the story
correctly the Earth opens up to swallow
the faithless scouts and no no no no
that's a different it's a different
story no uh the the Earth open opens up
on a a different guy called the Kora oh
that's right okay okay that's right so
anyways the end of the story is exactly
what you said which is the leadership is
transferred to the by the way they were
leaders of their tribes they weren't
just Scouts I mean the sages tell us
that they weren't just Scouts they were
actually the leaders of the 12 tribes
and uh they had to be replaced but one
of the most fascinating periods is the
initial entrance and into Israel back
then by Joshua and then the subsequent
hundreds of years where suddenly a a
Slave nation is governing you know
itself not as a kingdom not as a United
Kingdom but um as with distributed
responsibility very distributed yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah well in the ethical
almost too much by the way and not too
much distribution but too much
selfishness selfishness of tribes uh too
many times they didn't help each other
when they ought to have and and then
comes uh you know Saul and King David
and unites the whole thing right right
right well the mor or upshot of the
story is that in the face of the
challenges of the future you're required
to be realistically optimistic right
it's a moral requirement and that yeah
yeah I love that term realistically
optimistic that that's that's my way in
life realistically optimistic the faith
the the faith element of that is that
well yes of course this is going to be
difficult and challenging and there are
ways it could go wrong but if we
maintain our covant with God and we
continue to aim upward and act
appropriately there's no challenges that
we can't over
and that's the right to Young realistic
optimistic and one other element action
oriented the the Bible is all about
action it's and and generally Judaism
this is the the Jewish faith cares
little about your feelings so you know
here and there there are blips but by
and large you are measured by what you
do not by how you feel and if you do
something wrong you can't repent just by
feeling bad like or if you see a poor
person all you feel for him but if you
don't act it doesn't count you it's
called a Mitzvah a good deed and a which
is a bad deed the only that's what I
love about um and what I take from
Judaism primarily is is the action
oriented element of it it's all about
doing uh and not just
pontificating indication of commitment
of faith is manifested in action by the
way what what what the Jews responded
when when H Moses came down with the 10
commandments when they didn't screw up
right uh they they they said in Hebrew
it's called we shall do and we shall
listen which is a strange thing he he
tells the rules and they said we'll do
it and we'll listen not we'll listen and
we'll do uh and and and that's a uh
there's a meaning to it and and you as a
um you know expert in in
Psychology the be I think the best way
to um inculcate a habit is by doing it
just by doing it again and again you it
becomes part of you as opposed to
teaching it and and that's why you know
my my dad didn't talk didn't preach us a
lot he just did and and that's how we
learned from them through doing and and
so so you know I I I have a very strong
inclination to action very little
patience with people who just uh you
know talk about it so let's close I had
asked you if there was anything in
particular you'd like to say to the
let's say progressive types who are
agitating on behalf of Hamas in in the
United States and the rest of the West
like if you were going to say something
reasonable to them you know what I mean
something that isn't necessarily finger
wagging wagging or dismiss
to make a case like how would you
explain what they're how would you
explain why what they're doing is
misguided well I would start with
talking about the state of Israel and
its beauty in in in the following
sense sometimes I feel that uh Israel's
this experiment of God or someone that
puts us smacking in the middle of of all
the worst conditions possible in every
Dimension you know no water so he wants
to see how we'll deal with it and and we
generate water we have the highest rate
in the world of of uh desalinated water
and an impressive accomplish all right
and then we've got no oil so we have to
we have to you
know mine our minds right and and and
they build a knowledge based then he
puts the craziest enemies around us and
we got to fight and innovate there but
then he plants them amid uh in in this
asymmetric Terror where they embed
themselves within um civilians and he
tells the Jews you you go pave the way
and show everyone how to fight
terrorists in the most moral way
possible and that's what we're doing I I
I don't know who did that uh pager thing
but whoever did that pager thing it is
the single most uh um
pinpointed uh way because by definition
only bad guys got the pagers only
commanders in kisah got the and and and
you kill them and Ma them so in a sense
we're showing we're we're sort of
Trailblazers of how you operate with
good morals in the real world not in
some
theoretical uh IV League uh University
world but in the real world um you know
we've got Rockets So we we innovate the
Iron Dome the next thing is going to be
laser and and and I think that our
destiny of of the state of Israel first
is to be strong and be but secondly we
are not only startup Nation but in a
sense um a nation that paves the way of
solutions to the world's biggest problem
let me let me give you one of them
there's a small problem you have that I
phone over there and we're all addicted
to that thing and social networks and
and the the what's happening to the
younger generation I want to tell you
about this uh startup that's dealing
with how do we how do we um cut that
addiction so it's called Sabbath it was
innovated 3,300 years ago it's this uh
notion that once a week Friday afternoon
you turn off all those machines
um you don't use them for 25 hours from
about 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Saturday
night and you you do this peculiar thing
where you sit with your children at a
table uh you do kidos which is the
blessing and you talk about things you
look at your children you spend two
hours at a long dinner without iPhones
because you're not allowed to and that's
an example for how we can use the the
tenants of of Judaism to help tackle
some of the world's biggest problems and
and so if if I had to wrap it up what is
Israel uh Israel is the Jewish State a
democratic State it's 10 million really
good people in very tough
circumstances uh who are trying to do
their best to to to flourish and do good
and um sitting in in Berkeley or in
Harvard and uh and uh you know second
guessing us when we're fighting these
crazy people who just we saw what they
want to do on October 7th we had a
preview of what would happen in all of
Israel it would be a second shaah a
second Holocaust if we lay down our arms
if we're soft if we make we we don't
have any margin of error as a prime
minister that was the one thing that I I
realized that you know I I need to
govern a country fine but the the first
and foremost thing is that we are under
existential Threat all the time we have
no second chances
so give us that slack we're not a
perfect Nation we're imperfect we've got
our our flaws but we we're trying darn
good to be to to be strong and to be
good and that's commendable and and and
stop uh uh you know stop this
anti-Semitism and this hate against this
wonderful
country all right sir well it was good
talking to you thank you very much for
sitting down with me today much
appreciated yeah yeah well and good luck
sorting out your internal divisions oh
yeah yes your external enemies that's
the next big challenge which I don't
know yet how we're going to tackle it
but we're going to have to find a Sol
yeah well you can at least start by
reminding everybody what they have in
common so and how important that is
that's a good point yeah well we've been
starting to do that sort of thing in the
US and in Canada and trying to identify
the core set of values and beliefs that
unite everyone and there are plenty of
them you know and that's what defines a
nation so all right so for everybody
watching and listening I'm going to
continue this discussion as I always do
on the daily wire side and I think I'll
I'll walk Mr Bennett through his
autobiographical history and talk more
about well his experiences running his
companies and his transition into the
political realm and then also I'd like
to expand on that personal narrative to
to discuss a little bit about the
conditions that have made for Israel's
remarkable economic and Military success
particularly over the last couple of
decades so if you want to join us for
that on the daily wire side that's where
the discussion is heading thank you very
much sir and to the film crew here in in
LA today for making the second podcast
of the day possible that's much
appreciated
[Music]